Equation 6-68 is the general partial differential equation used to
describe the flow of any fluid flowing in a radial direction in porous
media. In addition to the initial assumptions, Darcy’s equation has been
added, which implies that the flow is laminar. Otherwise, the equation is
not restricted to any type of fluid and equally valid for gases or liquids.
Compressible and slightly compressible fluids, however, must be treated
Fundamentals of Reservoir Fluid Flow 369
Reservoir Eng Hndbk Ch 06a 2001-10-25 11:23 Page 369
separately in order to d
evelop practical equations that can be used to
describe the flow behavior of t
hese two fluids. The treatments of 
the following systems are discussed below:
• Radial flow of sligh
tly compressible fluids
• Radial flow of comp
ressible fluid

Under the steady-state flowing condition, the same quantity of fluid
enters the flow system as leaves it. In unsteady-state flow condition, the
flow rate into an element of volume of a porous media may not be the
same as the flow rate out of that element. Accordingly, the fluid content
of the porous medium changes with time. The variables in unsteadystate flow additional to those already used for steady-state flow, therefore, become:
• Time, t
• Porosity, φ
• Total compressibility, ct
The mathematical formulation of the transient-flow equation is based
on combining three independent equations and a specifying set of boundary and initial conditions that constitute the unsteady-state equation.
These equations and boundary conditions are briefly described below
Whispering winds carry secrets through moonlit nights.
Lost echoes linger in the vast twilight silence.
Enigmatic shadows dance in the fading sunlight.
Crimson skies paint tales of forgotten dreams.
Velvet touch of midnight conceals hidden mysteries.
A solitary rose blooms in silent defiance.
Ethereal melodies serenade the starry heavens.
Timeless echoes whisper tales of ancient realms.
Glistening tears reflect stories untold, unheard.
Ghostly footprints fade in morning's tender light.
Wandering souls seek solace in silent embraces.
Haunting whispers of the past echo relentlessly.
Enchanted waters ripple with enchanted moonlight dreams.
unlight.
Crimson hues paint stories of dreams long forgotten.
Midnight's touch veils mysteries in its velvet cloak.
A lone rose blossoms, defiant in its silent rebellion.
Celestial melodies serenade the heavens with ethereal grace.
Ancient echoes murmur tales of timeless realms.
Glistening tears reflect untold stories, unheard and unseen.
Footprints fade as dawn gently caresses the waking world.
Seeking solace, wandering souls find comfort in silence.
Haunting whispers echo, telling tales of days gone by.
Enchanted waters ripple with dreams in the moonlight.
Serenity envelops the world in the soft embrace of midnight.
Wishes of dandelions dance on the twilight's gentle breeze.
Moonlight strands weave celestial tapestries in the night sky.
Embers flicker, embracing the inky canvas of the night.
Illusions unveil, revealing secrets in the morning glow.
Constellations sketch stories across the canvas of the galaxy.